---
layout: post
categories: ["alex"]
title: "identity"
date: 2018-05-18
---

i want to try to describe how i relate to my own identity. i don’t know how other
people feel about their identities. it’s not a feeling you can transmit. you can’t put your hand
on someone else’s and understand how they perceive it. i have no idea if this experiment is
even vaguely feasible, but i want to try.

when i turn my attention inward and look for it, there’s nothing. what i grasp for first
is a label, something with a shape which it might fit into. there’s a couple of these that come
to mind almost immediately: programmer, trans girl, anarchist ... but well, that’s the thing.
i’ve been all of these and none of these at the same time. some days i don’t “feel” a label but
the criteria fit anyway, because of how labels and identity work — by social construction. you
can only be a programmer in a world that knows what programming is, that distinguishes it
from something else, and that distinguishing defines its criteria. other days i feel it but the
criteria don’t exactly fit. being a trans girl is one of those thing. the problem with these
criteria is that they are indeed socially constructed, meaning they’re malleable. and as a
member of society, it’s not like the construction has nothing to do with me.

i guess the thing is that, maybe more than most, my identity is slippery. some parts
remain fixed for longer periods of time than others, but as far as i can tell there’s nothing
that remains indefinitely. this seems to set me apart from other people. or at least, people
without bpd.

one of the worst parts of a slippery identity is that it’s also difficult for me to grasp
much of the time. even i won’t know where part of me has gone, where part of me came
from, when to expect that something might appear or disappear. sometimes i wake up and
there’s something that was core to me that’s just ... vanished. i can’t explain it any better
than that. maybe it’ll be back. maybe it won’t. maybe something similar will take its place.

in times like these, consistent action arises out of consistent values. i don’t see values
as a part of identity. i think people sometimes choose to make their values their identity, but
i don’t believe identifying a certain way is a requirement for holding a certain value. i’ll
never believe less in universal human rights, queer rights, the fundamental unjustness of
capital, etc. but some days i might think the term “activist” fits more than others. indeed,
some days i will highly associate with it, and others not at all.

so when i cast my vision inward.. i see no identity at all, until i pause and let my eyes
adjust, and then i see a million. i don’t know how to convey this. how much it feels like i’m
at odds with a world that expects me to remain static, to possess a single identity and not a
dynamic process of identity. how much that can make me feel bad for not conforming with
their expectations; how that can manifest as disappointment and disgust and self-hate, none
of which helps, but instead pushes me toward repression.

i find it hard to say i’m one person. it’s hard to say i possess “an identity”, to relate to
“my identity” when the singular is utterly dissonant here.

it’s hard to say i relate to identity.
