---
layout: post
categories: ["alex"]
title: "train"
date: 2018-05-16
---

on the second carriage from the front. the sky is overcast with some unevenness as the
light filters through it.

i love the sounds of public transit but i love applying my own music to the journey
even more, recasting the experience to suit my mood.

this dusk light is something else. i wish there was a carriage with the interior lights off
or dimmed. i can’t imagine how amazing it would feel; dream-like and otherworldly,
transformative. it’s simple stuff like that which really makes life feel exciting. expanding
experience.

one thing i love about taking public transport in melbourne is getting a look at the sea
of faces that make up our city. at this time there’s roughly 50:50 caucasian and not. and
y’know, for a colonially settled city, that’s pretty great. maybe that’s one of the reasons i like
box hill so much. i wonder if that’s just me trying to assuage my own white guilt tho.

we pass over auburn rd and there’s a glimpse of a mass of red and white lights from
the cars below, gone as quickly as it appeared. lately multiple people have described the
world as noir, and i’m feeling that now. there’s definitely a vague sense of unease that
permeates the scene, hinting at dystopia, even though i can’t help but find beauty in
everything i see. i see beauty but it doesn’t mean i don’t see what’s actually there too.

another train passes in the opposite direction just as the bass drops in the music i’m
listening to. little drops of serendipity.
