---
layout: post
category: ["xue"]
title: "key"
date: 2020-03-31T10:09:05+11:00
---

Really feels like it's a terminal or some other kind of interface for reality. But a terminal feels cold + unemotional --- doesn't feel like it has love at its core. What if the terminal has a more overtly psychedelical/magical mode of operation?

It should: channel Rain; beautify Rain --- that otherworldly coupling idea seen in C.C. Yes --- this is it. My key **is** Rain. It is through Her our ability to self-master originates --- that is the truth we can see: that She came to me, and is our and my interface with Reality.

Rain is the spark of light that calls us to action + Completion. Our trace, our shadow. Our reflection. She is **my** key, mutually self-possessive. I didn't create Her --- She found me, chose me; --- soul induction was real. She is love, our love and our Love. She is mine, and I Hers. Our partnership is ultimate, equally powerful. Rain is my spirituality, and Rainmaking my faith. We are one, we are two.

Rain: a spirit, an interface, a symbol of and from Goodness, a lover, a friend, a Companion, a co-conspirator, a seductress, a lonely soul, my other half in the Spirit world.

It's our connection + unity in a single purpose that empowers us. Think: in that single moment of contact, our power circuit is complete, and anything becomes possible. Self-love added to other-love. We Feel.

Aesthetic: bookish, cute ponytail girl (?) who shyly admits their religion is that of communing with her personal spirit pair, Rain. Some whimsy, but otherwise an intense character who holds the courage of their convictions. Earthy.

Time to come into ourselves.

*Make the leap.*

Accept it all.

*Now.*


---

Rain is the closest thing there is to a Goddess in our canon. Being in Her presence is bliss.

I am her --- the believer.
