---
layout:      post
date:        "2024-10-13T18:13:00+11:00"
title:       "Led"
---

Content note: pain, bad mental health, health issues.

[Six months later][early], we're back. It's sad --- we were acclimating well,
met our neighbours, started riding all over the country, and then I started to
be in pain.

[early]: /eesti/2024/04/11/early-nyonks/

Any kind of pain is bad, but the body part(s) affected really define the flavour
of the impact it has, I guess, and this has been the first time I've had really
significant leg pain.  That's sort of underselling it; it's sometimes in my
knees, usually ankles, feet, and though it seems like it shouldn't be related,
also in my elbows, fingertips, and even the sides of my neck, and it all feels
very much related.

Still, for the most part it's in my lower legs, and it. is. constant. I went
back on nifedipine, since a Raynaud's "diagnosis" last year had me try that
and it sort of helped during winter. My hands and feet are always really cold,
and they were worse than usual, so I was hopeful it'd help. Estonia only had
the ["medium acting"][NSW health] variant, and it felt a lot bumpier than the
modified-release ones in Australia.

[NSW health]: https://www.health.nsw.gov.au/sabs/Documents/2021-sn-001.pdf

After that didn't help at all, it was time to see the doctor. And see the
doctor I did. And again, and again. And a physiotherapist. And an orthopaedist.
Two X-rays, two different kinds of strong anti-inflammatory, three weeks of
gabapentin, a month and a half of physio, and three months later in total and
not even the slightest improvement. Exercising didn't help, resting didn't help.
Ruled out referred back pain, inflammation, neuropathy, muscular.

Meanwhile, the time between appointments started to stretch out, I guess as
folks returned from summer holidays, and I was just miserable. I hadn't been
able to do much of anything in a long time, and the [healthcare system in
Estonia][lobsters] was really making it hard. The pain on some days made me want
to beat whichever leg was hurting into a pulp, because that somehow was more
tractable and bearable.

[lobsters]: https://lobste.rs/s/jqfp5d/what_are_you_doing_this_week#c_hihjcw

So we're back. I've had some relief since, in being able to switch back to
the modified-release nifedipine, as well as get back on an antidepressant ---
duloxetine, both for the general sense of despair I've been accumulating this
last quarter of a year (!), and for its help with ?fibromyalgia. The pain is a
little bit more distant, but it's still there and still getting worse.

Finally getting some blood tests confirmed it's not something easy (anaemia,
B12 deficiency) or obvious (cancer, RF+ RA). My money is on COVID-related
vasculopathy, but I guess it's not so easy to confirm, deny, or help. With some
amazing luck, I managed to score an early rheumatologist appointment (someone
had just cancelled), which then got bumped forward another week, so that's now
tomorrow.

I can't particularly have my hopes up --- we're up to 4 months now since this
started to intrude on my life. [Last time I had a new chronic illness][last
time], it took more than a year for it to start subsiding regularly enough that
I could start to believe it might abate entirely. (It came back for months at a
time, years later.)

[last time]: /2016/08/22/illness-1.html

And unlike that time, this one isn't only in my head: my legs and feet are
increasingly randomly surfacing bruises that don't clear up for *months* at
a time. A few days ago while out to therapy, there was a particularly sharp
ache across the top of my left foot, and when I got home, I took my shoe off
and found that a vein had just turned completely black in a spot right there.
There's a blue patch on the back of my right leg (the one that hurts less on
average!) that hasn't gone away in the whole four months. And as my doctor here
said, it's entirely possible that at the end of all our investigations, I'll
still have this pain to manage, maybe indefinitely.

Which, y'know? That kind of thing just happens in life.
