---
layout:      post
title:       "2025"
---

Happy new year!

I guess I'm taking a slightly more laid-back approach to goals this year.
[Health issues][led] have unfortunately progressed; whatever pain relief I
was getting from the duloxetine (or otherwise), either that effect has worn
off or the pain levels have risen to break through.

I've also encountered a new arrhythmia, so "sudden cardiac death" is back on the
menu of dread. Holter monitor next week where I'll try to reproduce that without
dying. Rheumatologist follow-up appointment where I expect to be diagnosed with
hEDS in ... 12 weeks.  So it goes.

Goals, then.


### Keep up Duolingo.

866 days now; the streak isn't the important thing, but it has been a really
good lesson in proving to myself I can stay consistent with things given
the right motivation. (In this case, being able to speak my partner's native
language.)

Duolingo isn't for everyone, and the course quality varies wildly, but the
Spanish course for English speakers is incredible, and if you spend 15-20
minutes a day on it, and let it be your fallback activity when bored, you will
steadily but surely gain an extremely real facility with the language.

(This much time is also enough to reliably sit around Obsidian/Diamond league,
and sometimes it can be a nice dopamine hit to make an effort to finish at #1.)

I have the benefit of being around a native speaker all the time, but the first
year or so my level wasn't anywhere near being able to use it casually without
it getting annoying for both of us. By now, we can switch in and out pretty
comfortably around the topics I've covered lexicon for.

I've also added Portuguese on the side, spending roughly half my time each day
on each, and it works pretty well! I wouldn't start two at once (especially
closely related languages like these; too confusing), but being a few years in
with one makes it an easy way to bootstrap another habit.  Português é estranho,
mas eu gosto :)  It's a much shorter and less developed course than the Spanish
one, so I expect I'll finish it this year and start another in its stead.


### Daily meditation.

Planning to slot this in with my Duolingo practice.  I've been an on-and-off
meditator for 20 years or so now.  I need the equanimity now more than ever.


### Home-cooked meals.

This has been a real struggle over the last year or two, with energy levels so
low (and no microwave in the Tallinn apartment!), but since moving into my new
place back in Melbourne it's been a key focus.  Just need to keep it up.


### Deliver the Ava MVP.

Charlotte's been working non-stop on [Ava BASIC] ([previously][ava1]) since
July, and hopefully we can get that into a complete MVP this year.


### Secondary project.

Having an "off" project would be nice.  This is a vaguer goal, but I get the
feeling technical writing would be a good fit for us.


### Keep learning.

So far I have an unsorted list of things I'd like to learn or improve at:

* Formal methods in digital design. We've played around with this a bit (e.g. with
  [Robert Baruch's Amaranth exercises][amaranth-exercises]; solving Sudoku with
  HDL and formal was a cool and unexpected twist), but not enough to usefully use it
  in actual designs.
* Likewise, something like [Lean] and perhaps [Quint].
* Stenography with [Open Steno].
* Training on the Africa Twin; I've been rebuilding confidence since a fall
  after a tyre replacement early last year, but I'd like some controlled
  conditions to push the envelope a bit.


[led]: https://kivikakk.ee/2024/10/13/led/
[Ava BASIC]: https://github.com/charlottia/ava
[ava1]: https://kivikakk.ee/zig/2024/08/06/t%C3%BC%C3%BCpiautomaat/
[amaranth-exercises]: https://github.com/robertbaruch/amaranth-exercises
[Lean]: https://lean-lang.org/
[Quint]: https://github.com/informalsystems/quint
[Open Steno]: http://www.openstenoproject.org/
