---
layout:      post
title:       "Alg√∫n tipo de mitten"
---

I was sitting in the dark the other night, meditating; at this point in time,
there was a particular point on the inner side of my right ankle that was
particularly hurting, and my focus there; a little duller was an ache on the top
of my left foot. In being with it, I realised, oh, this is chronic pain.

And it's not a very surprising thought now, truly, but when you go to bed one
night and your leg hurts so much you're worried there might be a blood clot,
it's not yet obvious to you that this will be the start of something that
will last at least nine months more. But I think nine months without a cause
identified is probably a fine enough time to say we've crossed the line into
"chronic pain".

In the presence of daily pain that seems to change form and "spread" through
the body, it's very hard to shake the feeling there isn't something progressive
happening. My left eye is seemingly permanently some degree of bloodshot these
days. The bruising on my lower legs is ridiculous, and the way they refuse to
heal. I'd kind of prefer it if the pain coincided with them, but it mostly does
not.

TCAs were indeed my GP's preference, so I've started out a very slow transition
to amitriptyline. The relief with sleep has been immediate, an absolute
god-send. Was extremely sleepy in general the first week or so and napping
every day, but that's a really nice experience after such a long time of
sleeplessness. That's calmed down since, and while I'm still sweat-waking I'm
pretty much right back to sleep and actually feeling rested in mornings. I am
noticeably more dissociated on it; maybe it's just the SNRI/TCA mix, maybe it's
maybelline. Will adjust the dosage in three weeks.

Rheumatologist follow-up finally in just under two weeks (last was [5 months
ago](/2024/10/13/led/)); I don't expect anything useful to come from it. Called
it quits with my psych. Poco a poco.
